# comp120-evaluation
A critical evaluation where students reflecting on their programming skills and software artifacts.
For my first week I was feeling a little lost trying to keep up with the rest of the class, but as things started to settle down it was nice to see that I wasn’t the only one to be virtually new to programming.
The essays were handed out on the Friday that I missed but I felt positive about what I had to write. After communicating with Jodie and Harriot I was pleased to find out that they were quite supportive in the group presentation and it was easy for us to choose a console to write about. I choose the Atari 2600 thinking that perhaps I would have to fight for it, but the others had already chosen other one to write about.
We are continuing to learn the basics of Python, I’m struggling a bit with the home practice as not much of it makes sense to me. I’m finding that working on my essay seems to be a worthy distraction from the worry of falling behind. 
I handed in my draft for my essay today and realised that it was basically a shambles of words jotted down on paper that looked good. I was presented with asking another question for the essay, perhaps a more specific one. It wasn’t a problem I knew that what I had written was a mess so I went away and began completely rewriting my essay.
so today which is Monday the 12th oct I was completely lost, we were leasing how to modify each pixel in a photo, I couldn’t figure out how to get it done, that is until mike used an example of what the code should look like, it wasn’t helpful that the two folk next to me were excelling at the current program. Anyway I eventually got the gist of things and caught up towards the end of the lecture.
Today went well it was the 14th oct Wed, I felt that today was a good day, examples were provided and I like to think that I understand the concept of the lecture, my main concern for the day was my pair programming issue, Angus doesn’t seem to be responding to my questions about the 120 graphics project, I have asked mike about it and am to add him to the chat so he can have some evidence of this and perhaps arrange a meeting to sort it out. This comes with the new worksheet handout which revolves around the project, of course this doesn’t help with the situation as I still don’t know which contract to go for.... 
Today Friday the 16th oct was a good day, there was a further development on the essay structure which I found to be more helpful than any book or example that I’ve read. We also looked into the beginnings of class and object orientated programming which was fascinating, still struggling to get my head around certain rules or programming and just writing it in general but I think that with time I will get where I need to be. 
Week beginning Monday 19th it was a good week, I didn’t feel quite as lost as I normally do. I’ve been working on my essay a lot more in preparation for the peer review.  Over the weekend I spent the majority of my time writing the essay, I probably should have gotten some programming practice in but there’s only so much staring blankly at a computer screen that one can take before I start convincing myself that I’ve done enough for the day. But I think I created something worth reading this time.
The peer review went well, I think. I need to go back through my essay and add a few technical aspects and restructure my sentences so they’re not so long. Not too much of a problem, I have it planned out for which days I’m allocating to what assignment.
Reading week, it went well I believe. I did my COMP 120 graphics worksheets simple in design but when put into practice is quite difficult to program, I have come up with several different ways to write the program but each has its drawbacks, I am leaning towards one method as its seems to be the smoothest quickest way and you can visually see the changes, I am yet to implement text and motion. I have also “finished” my essay it’s still not analytical enough for my liking but I find it difficult to write in that style at this time, although I think that with future essays which are based on a more modern idea then I should be able to get better. Although I would have liked to sit down and program as a pair with my partner I don’t believe he feels the same as after a few brief messages at the beginning of the assignment I only had one answer, but when I have something worth reading for my program I will send it over to him for review.
I did my essay this weekend it took 20 hours, I ran into many problems, like for instance creating a appropriate question to use. I read over the papers that I found and realised that one of them was not appropriate for the question so I had to go and find another. 
I hope to start working on my sound program soon, all I need to do is add one more effect to my graphics program to make it complete.
Over December I have managed to create a small playable game, it took me many attempts to write each part, for example the random start positions for the crackers. I found this part very taxing on my patients. To deal with this I made sure that I had many breaks during my work.
Now I have survived to January I have found that I need to pay more attention to time management I seem to be wasting valuable time. A method which I will utilize is a timetabled weekly schedule for a mon-fri for an 8 hour a day work period.
